KPIs

Applicant’s Personal & Employment Details

# Average Age by LoanApproved
print(df.groupby('LoanApproved')['Age'].mean())

# Approval rate by MaritalStatus
print(df.groupby('MaritalStatus')['LoanApproved'].mean())

# Approval rate by EmploymentStatus
print(df.groupby('EmploymentStatus')['LoanApproved'].mean())

# Average Experience by LoanApproved
print(df.groupby('LoanApproved')['Experience'].mean())



Applicant’s Financial Profile

# Average AnnualIncome by LoanApproved
print(df.groupby('LoanApproved')['AnnualIncome'].mean())

# Average NetWorth by LoanApproved
print(df.groupby('LoanApproved')['NetWorth'].mean())

# Average Savings & Checking Balances by LoanApproved
print(df.groupby('LoanApproved')[['SavingsAccountBalance','CheckingAccountBalance']].mean())

# Average MonthlyDebtPayments by LoanApproved
print(df.groupby('LoanApproved')['MonthlyDebtPayments'].mean())


Applicant’s Credit History

# Average CreditScore by LoanApproved
print(df.groupby('LoanApproved')['CreditScore'].mean())

# % with PreviousLoanDefaults by LoanApproved
print(df.groupby('LoanApproved')['PreviousLoanDefaults'].mean())

# % with BankruptcyHistory by LoanApproved
print(df.groupby('LoanApproved')['BankruptcyHistory'].mean())

# Average CreditCardUtilizationRate by LoanApproved
print(df.groupby('LoanApproved')['CreditCardUtilizationRate'].mean())


Loan Details

# Average LoanAmount by LoanApproved
print(df.groupby('LoanApproved')['LoanAmount'].mean())

# Approval rate by LoanPurpose
print(df.groupby('LoanPurpose')['LoanApproved'].mean())

# Average LoanDuration by LoanApproved
print(df.groupby('LoanApproved')['LoanDuration'].mean())

# Average MonthlyLoanPayment by LoanApproved
print(df.groupby('LoanApproved')['MonthlyLoanPayment'].mean())


Bank’s Calculated Metrics & Decision

# Overall Approval Rate
approval_rate = df['LoanApproved'].mean()
print("Approval Rate:", approval_rate)

# Average TotalDebtToIncomeRatio by LoanApproved
print(df.groupby('LoanApproved')['TotalDebtToIncomeRatio'].mean())

# Average RiskScore by LoanApproved
print(df.groupby('LoanApproved')['RiskScore'].mean())

# Average InterestRate by LoanApproved
print(df.groupby('LoanApproved')['InterestRate'].mean())
